Title: Improving a project homepage
Date: 2014-06-17 0:19:20
Author: Britta Gustafson
Slug: improving-a-project-homepage
Tags: helped by - mailing list, helped by - IRC, project - OpenHatch, featured
Summary: I started hanging out on OpenHatch's IRC channel and mailing lists, generally learning about the project, getting to know its people, and finding out where I could help with its goals (helping people contribute to free and open source projects). I'm a community manager instead of a developer, so often the things I can help with aren't listed in a bug tracker. One of these ways of helping happened a few months later. I realized that OpenHatch-the-organization did a lot more than what the OpenHatch website homepage described -- and that the homepage was unintentionally outdated, instead of being purposefully designed to focus on only a few things. So at an in-person project sprint soon after that, I decided that my task for the day would be to work on this problem!


I got lucky with getting involved in OpenHatch - I met cool people at conferences, they worked on a project that I found interesting, and they invited me to help with it! (Here's [that story in more detail.](http://openhatch.org/blog/2013/how-i-found-an-open-source-project-for-me/)

So I started hanging out on OpenHatch's IRC channel and mailing lists, generally learning about the project, getting to know its people, and finding out where I could help with its goals (helping people contribute to free and open source projects). I'm a community manager instead of a developer, so often the things I can help with aren't listed in a bug tracker. One of these ways of helping happened a few months later. I realized that OpenHatch-the-organization did a lot more than what the OpenHatch website homepage described -- and that the homepage was unintentionally outdated, instead of being purposefully designed to focus on only a few things. So at an in-person project sprint soon after that, I decided that my task for the day would be to work on this problem! To propose some changes, I wrote emails to the development mailing list: 

+ ["Let's link important things from the homepage"](http://lists.openhatch.org/pipermail/devel/2014-January/003370.html)
+ ["Let's also put more social media on the homepage"](http://lists.openhatch.org/pipermail/devel/2014-January/003371.html)

Then at the sprint, I talked about these ideas with a long-time contributor to get confirmation that these were good ideas, and I started making a simple mockup of how the additional information could fit into the page. It was nice to do this kind of design work at an in-person sprint because I knew I could get immediate focused feedback from other contributors, instead of risking veering off into paths that other contributors wouldn't support. It's also much easier to talk about design when you can point at a screen together.	

I worked on my mockup more in the next couple weeks, and then at one of our regular IRC "office hours" meetings, I discussed the revised mockup with other contributors, and we refined the design together. We [wrote to the mailing list about this mockup](http://lists.openhatch.org/pipermail/devel/2014-January/003421.html) in case any other contributors were interested in providing feedback.	Nobody objected, so I [filed a formal task in our bug tracker](http://lists.openhatch.org/pipermail/devel/2014-January/003422.html) with a technical description of the changes to be made. Yay! I assigned the task to a fellow contributor who had expressed interest in implementing it.

A few days later, she filed a [pull request with her changes](https://github.com/openhatch/oh-mainline/pull/197), including a screenshot of her results. I gave her some feedback about the changes to explain how to make them more closely aligned with the mockup, and she updated the pull request until we both agreed that it looked good.	Another contributor merged the pull request, and a little later the change went live! [Before](https://web.archive.org/web/20140131204711/http://openhatch.org) and [after](https://web.archive.org/web/20140201204708/http://openhatch.org/).	This was fun. Sticking around with one project for a while meant that I had enough understanding of the project to identify a significant issue and lead our effort to fix that issue.  
